# 2. Compliance Communication

&quot;Communications is much more complex than just saying something and expecting someone to hear you!&quot;

The CEOs of the Siemens units must ensure that all Siemens employees are informed about all relevant legal and internal rules and processes/tools in the area of compliance and that this information is kept up to date. The CEOs are also responsible for establishing continuous and adequate communication with appropriate outreach at all organizational levels (tone from the top).

The Compliance organization provides the relevant content. As part of their Collective Action efforts, each Siemens unit must ensure that adequate information is also provided to external stakeholders.

The responsibility of Communications for relations with external media on compliance topics remains unaffected.

The Legal and Compliance Communication department is part of Global Functions (LC C GF) and strives for delivering excellent, innovative, and efficient solutions. Global Function&#39;s goals include strengthening the organizational efficiency and achieving closer cooperation and collaboration within the global community. Therefore, Global Functions acts as an interface between different stakeholders and works in a broad range of overarching areas by bundling, coordinating and driving Legal and Compliance topics including Legal and Compliance training and communication.

# 2.1. Role of Legal and Compliance Communication

Communication is part of the tasks of Global Functions within the Legal and Compliance Organization.

**Legal and Compliance Communication**

- has a guidance role for all levels of communication within Legal and Compliance,
- is the communications expert for the Legal and Compliance communication strategy and communication plan, market and online communications, as well as employee and leadership communications to ensure a globally consistent Legal and Compliance wide image and messages
- creates and implements internal and external communications platforms to ensure a consistent Legal and Compliance messaging,
- executes Legal and Compliance communications measures, and
- is the communications interface to Communications.

For all communications partners, including topic owners, Businesses, Business Units, and Regions, Legal and Compliance Communication has a guidance and governance role for all levels of communications within Legal and Compliance. Furthermore, the department is the content owner and communications expert for the binding Legal and Compliance communication strategy and respective communication plan, market and online communications, as well as employee and leadership communications. The goal is to ensure a globally consistent Legal and Compliance wide image and messages.

Legal and Compliance Communication creates and implements internal and external communications platforms to ensure a consistent Legal and Compliance messaging, executes Legal and Compliance communications measures, and is the communications interface to the Communications function.

### 2.1.1. Tasks of Legal and Compliance Communication

Legal and Compliance Communication strives to raise and increase awareness by providing positive and negative examples thus promoting responsible and ethical behavior within the company and beyond. In addition, the department supports a strong tone from the top at all organizational levels and adequate compliance communication activities and informs all employees about details of and changes to the Compliance System and internal and external rules.

**Business relevance**
Legal and Compliance Communication ensures that knowledge of the Compliance System is built up and maintained within the company and supports the management in performing its leadership duty.

### 2.1.2. Compliance Communication Strategy and Plan

The [Compliance Communication Strategy](https://findit.compliance.siemens.com/content/10000101/Compliance/CL_CO/CL_CO_AT/findIT_CL_CO_AT_3367.pptx) provides information about the global Compliance Communications Strategy for each fiscal year, target groups, communication goals, and messages. It is based on strategic corporate goals, Vision 2020+, the Company&#39;s Communications Strategy, LC&#39;s Vision, and the Compliance Priorities.

All compliance communication activities are based on the three Siemens values &quot;responsible – innovative – excellent&quot; and the company&#39;s communication premises. In order to ensure a consistent brand presence, it is crucial to follow the Siemens&#39; brand strategy and the company&#39;s style guide.

Integrated communications is key to increase the impact of the activities and to be more effective and efficient.

The [Compliance Communication Plan](https://findit.compliance.siemens.com/content/10000101/Compliance/CL_CO/CL_CO_AT/findIT_CL_CO_AT_3366.xlsx) contains information about projects at corporate level, such as the publication date of a specific measure, its content owners and target groups.

 The Compliance Communication Strategy and the respective Communication Plan will be updated according to relevant developments throughout the business year.

# 2.2. Training and supporting material

- [Communication Download Center](https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/059/en/processes/publications/Pages/compliance_communication.aspx)
- [Compliance Communication Strategy](https://findit.compliance.siemens.com/content/10000101/Compliance/CL_CO/CL_CO_AT/findIT_CL_CO_AT_3367.pptx)
- [Compliance Communication Plan](https://findit.compliance.siemens.com/content/10000101/Compliance/CL_CO/CL_CO_AT/findIT_CL_CO_AT_3366.xlsx)
- LC [Communications](https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/059/en/processes/publications/Pages/lc_webchats-newsletter-archive.aspx)[Archive](https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/059/en/processes/publications/Pages/lc_webchats-newsletter-archive.aspx)
- [LC Communication Download Center](https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/059/en/processes/publications/Pages/compliance_communication.aspx)
- [LC CB Global Functions](https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/059/en/about/org/Pages/legal_cb.aspx)

# 2.3. History of changes

| **Date** | **Author** | **Major changes of binding content** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| September 18, 2020 | Joerg Nullmeier (LC C GF) | Update according to new organizational terms as of October 1, 2020. |
| January 1, 2019 | Joerg Nullmeier (LC CB GF) | First release through Compliance Handbook. |

# 2.4. Contacts

- **Compliance Officer**

The Compliance Officer responsible for your unit can be found through the following [link](https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/059/en/about/org/Pages/compliance_organization.aspx).

- **Corporate Governance Owner LC Communications**

Joerg Nullmeier (LC C GF)

Ulrike Seedorf (LC C GF)